[10] Connection section (#25)
odahu/odahu-docs: source/ref_connections.rst

Below you can find the description of all fields:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Connection API
    :name: Connection API file

    # Unique value among all connections
    id: "id-12345"
    spec:
        # Optionally description of a connection
        description: "Some description"
        # Optionally link to the web resource. For example, git repo or a gcp bucket
        webUILink: https://test.org/123
        # URI. It is a required value.
        uri: s3://some-bucket/path/file
        # Type of a connection. Available values: s3, gcs, azureblob, git, docker, ecr.
        type: s3
        # Username
        username: admin
        # Password
        password: admin
        # Service account role
        role: some-role
        # AWS region or GCP project
        region: some region
        # VCS reference
        reference: develop
        # Key ID
        keyID: "1234567890"
        # SSH or service account secret
        keySecret: b2RhaHUK
        # SSH public key
        publicKey: b2RhaHUK

*********************
Connection management
*********************

Connections can be managed using the following ways.

Swagger UI
----------

> Swagger UI is available at http:://api-service/swagger/index.html URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swagger UI is available at http://api-service/swagger/index.html URL.
```

Odahu-flow CLI
--------------

:ref:`ref_odahuflowctl:Odahuflowctl` supports the connection API.
You must be :ref:`ref_odahuflowctl:Login` if you want to get access to the API.

Getting all connections in json format:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl conn get --format json

Getting the reference of the connection:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl conn get --id odahu-flow-examples -o 'jsonpath=[*].spec.reference'

* Creating of a connection from `conn.yaml` file:

.. code-block:: bash

    odahuflowctl conn create -f conn.yaml

JupyterLab
----------

Odahu-flow provides the JupyterLab extension for interacting with Connection API.

****************
Connection types
****************

For now, Odahu-flow supports the following connections types:

    * :ref:`ref_connections:S3`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Google Cloud Storage`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Azure Blob storage`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:GIT`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Docker`
    * :ref:`ref_connections:Amazon Elastic Container Registry`

S3
--

> A S3 connection allows interacts with `s3 API <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Welcome.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An S3 connection allows interactions with `s3 API <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/en_us/AmazonS3/latest/dev/Welcome.html>`_.
```

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example of Connection GCS:
    :name: Connection GCS file

    id: "training-data"
    spec:
        type: gcs
        uri: gsc://raw-data/model/input
        keySecret: '{"type": "service_account", "project_id": "project_id", "private_key_id": "private_key_id", "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nprivate_key\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n", "client_email": "test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com", "client_id": "123455678", "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth", "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token", "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs", "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/test@project_id.iam.gserviceaccount.com"}'
        description: "Training data for a model"
        region: us-central2

Azure Blob storage
------------------

Odahu-flow uses the `Blob storage <https://docs.microsoft.com/ru-ru/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction>`_ in Azure to store:

    * model trained artifacts.
    * input data for ML models.

Before usage, make sure that:

>     * You have created a storage account . `Create a storage account <https://docs.microsoft.com/ru-ru/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-cli#create-a-storage-account>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You have created a storage account . `Create a storage account <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-cli#create-a-storage-account>`_.
```

>     * You have created a storage container in the storage account . `Create a container <https://docs.microsoft.com/ru-ru/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-cli#create-a-container>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You have created a storage container in the storage account . `Create a container <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-cli#create-a-container>`_.
```

>     * You have created an SAS token. `Create an account SAS <https://docs.microsoft.com/ru-ru/rest/api/storageservices/create-account-sas>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You have created a SAS token. `Create an account SAS <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/create-account-sas>`_.
```

The following fields of connection API are required:

    * ``spec.type`` - It must be equal **azureblob**.
    * ``spec.keySecret`` - Odahu-flow uses the `shared access signatures <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview>`_ to authorize in Azure.
      The key has the following format: "<primary_blob_endpoint>/<sas_token>".

>     * ``spec.uri`` -  GCS compatible URI, for example <bucket-name>/dir1/dir2/

Reviewer 2: * ``spec.uri`` -  Azure storage compatible URI, for example <bucket-name>/dir1/dir2/

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example of GIT Connection:
    :name: GIT Connection

    id: "ml-repository"
    spec:
        type: git
        uri: git@github.com:odahu/odahu-examples.git
        keySecret: ClNVUEVSIFNFQ1JFVAoK
        reference: master
        description: "Git repository with the Odahu-Flow examples"
        webUILink: https://github.com/odahu/odahu-examples

Docker
------

This type of connection is used for pulling and pushing of the Odahu packager result Docker images to a Docker registry.
We have been testing the following Docker repositories:

    * `Docker Hub <https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/>`_
    * `Nexus <https://help.sonatype.com/repomanager3/formats/docker-registry>`_
    * `Google Container Registry <https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/docs/>`_
    * `Azure Container Registry <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-in/azure/container-registry/container-registry-intro>`_

.. warning::
    Every docker registry has its authorization specificity.

>     But you must be able to authorize by a username and password. Read documentation.

Reviewer 3: Read the documentation

Author: Fixed

Before usage, make sure that:

>     * You have had a username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You have a username and password.
```

The following fields of connection API are required:

    * ``spec.type`` - It must be equal **docker**.
    * ``spec.username`` - docker registry username.
    * ``spec.password`` - docker registry password.
    * ``spec.uri`` - docker registry host.

.. warning::

>     Connection URI must not contains an URI schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Connection URI must not contain an URI schema.
```

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example of Docker Hub
    :name: Connection Docker Hub file

    id: "docker-registry"
    spec:
        type: ecr
        uri: docker.io/odahu/
        username: "username"
        password: "password"

Amazon Elastic Container Registry
---------------------------------

`Amazon Elastic Container Registry <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/what-is-ecr.html>`_  is a managed AWS Docker registry.
This type of connection is used for pulling and pushing of the Odahu packager result Docker images.

.. note::
    The Amazon Docker registry does not support a long-lived credential and requires explicitly to create a repository for every image.
    These are the reasons why we create a dedicated type of connection for the ECR.

Before usage, make sure that:

>     * You have created an ECR repository. `Creating a ECR Repository <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/repository-create.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * You have created an ECR repository. `Creating an ECR Repository <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/repository-create.html>`_.
```
